# random coverage
-   This method is a low-cost strategy that trades time for space, and can achieve 100% coverage regardless of time. The random coverage method does not require positioning, no environmental map, and no path planning, so its moving path basically depends on the built-in algorithm, and the quality of the algorithm also determines its cleaning quality and efficiency.
# artificial potential field
-   The corresponding potential is generated around the pole, and the potential at any point is the sum of the potential generated at that point. The negative gradient of the potential is called the force. The establishment of the potential field is mainly used for dynamic obstacle avoidance. At this time, the gravitational pole is the intermediate target in the local environment, and the repulsive pole is the obstacle in the local environment. The resultant force of attraction and repulsion is used as the acceleration force of the robot to control the movement direction of the robot and calculate the position of the robot.

# grid method
- The characteristics of this method are simple and easy to implement, which brings a lot of convenience to the realization of path planning, and has the ability to represent irregular obstacles; its disadvantage is that the representation efficiency is not high, and there is a contradiction between space-time overhead and accuracy , the size of the grid directly affects the storage capacity of environmental information and the length of planning time. The larger the grid division, the smaller the storage capacity of environmental information, the shorter the planning time, the lower the resolution, and the weaker the ability to find paths in a dense environment; Powerful, but the storage capacity of the environment is large. Therefore, the size of the grid directly affects the performance of the control algorithm.
# artificial intelligence method
### Fuzzy
- The biggest advantage of this method is that the driving experience of the participants is small, the calculation amount is not large, it can realize real-time planning, and can overcome the local pole problem that is easily generated by the potential field method, and the effect is ideal. The path planning method of fuzzy control is especially suitable for local collision avoidance planning, and has the characteristics of simple design, intuitive, fast speed and good effect.
### NN
- In the motion behavior stage, the robot collects 3D environmental information through various sensors, and then inputs this information into the BP neural network. The robot can clean the surrounding area until there is no uncleaned area around. In the route planning stage, the cleaning robot needs to decide a shortest path to other unsweeped areas in the workspace. In the global route planning, a global environment map is generated, and then the robot starts from the starting point and cleans the entire workspace.

### Genetic 
- -   It simulates the phenomena of reproduction, mating and mutation that occur during natural selection and natural genetic processes. It regards each possible solution as an individual in the group (all possible solutions), encodes each individual into the form of a string, evaluates each individual according to a predetermined objective function, and gives a fitness value . At the beginning, some individuals (that is, candidate solutions) are randomly generated. According to the fitness of these individuals, the genetic algorithm (selection, crossover, mutation) is used to cross and combine these individuals to obtain a new individual. This new group of individuals is obviously better than the previous generation because it inherits some excellent properties of the previous generation, and gradually evolves towards a better solution.